# Overview: Euclid - Office 365 - Developers

*Using Azure analytics with Office 365 data to build thousands of intelligent applications*

## Introduction

Euclid brings Office 365 data and Azure resources to developers through
a core data pipeline. This enables them to easily build intelligent
applications with Microsoft's most valuable data and best development
tools, all within the Microsoft secure cloud.

Productivity is the one topic that all businesses are interested in
improving. With more than 120M active commercial users of Office 365 and
$250B spent per year on business applications, there is tremendous
opportunity building and selling products to make knowledge workers more
productive.

### Value

Office 365 contains the richest data in the world about workers and
their workplace. It contains information on how people work, how they
communicate, collaborate and manage their time. Bringing this data to
Azure means that developers have many of the world's best development
and hosting tools to work with this data. This enables customers to gain
innovative or industry-specific applications that enhance their
productivity while keeping full control over their Office 365 data.
Microsoft is bringing along the secured control that customers expect
and solving the liability of developers holding on to the data.

### O365 data

Euclid offers curated datasets from Office 365 entities accessed through
Outlook, Teams and OneDrive. The initial set of data types include
message content, meeting content, contact information and people data.
The set of data types will continue to grow as development continues.
The developer will be able to discover the variety of data types and
datasets that are available during application development. Developers
and end-customers' applications will have access to data incrementally
and historically (13 months prior). For all daily incremental pipelines,
Microsoft will support up to 15TB of data per day.

## Application devlopment experience

### Defining the data pipeline

During construction of the data pipeline in Azure Data Factory (ADF),
each application will have to define their own custom pipeline
definitions, which allows them to specify each of the following:

- O365 Dataset
- Date Range: Filter against the sent time property
- Data Freshness Requirements: Schedule data updates
- Privacy Rules: What scrubbing or other transformations must be run before the data set is made available to the application (e.g. removing all Attorney-Client privileged mails)

### Data pipeline construction

There is a simple, easy-to-use model in ADF via both Azure Resource
Manager (ARM) templates and the UX, which allows a developer to easily
express the Office 365 dataset they're interested in and have that data
show up in the Azure Data Store of their choice. Once a connection has
been made to the Office 365 data store, developers will be able to
select tables and apply simple queries. This pipeline will allow curated
data to be stored in the Azure Data Lake Store, Azure SQL DB or Azure
Data Warehouse. Once stored, developers will have access to the many
capabilities of Azure Services to develop and integrate their
application.

### Managed Application

The developer must specify in the package templates what standing access
they will have to the application. There are two options: the "governed"
application where the data and application are deployed into the
customer's subscription and neither the developer nor the customer has
standing access to the application, and the "ungoverned" application
where the developer has full access to the application. When publishing
the application, the developer must indicate whether the application
sends any data outside of the customer's subscription. The developer
also specifies the rest of the Managed Application package, including
the ARM templates, SKU options, and price to charge.

### Sample application: Who Knows Who

Microsoft has built a sample application called Who Knows Who (WKW)
which uses the tenant's own social network to find connections to people
and businesses, similar to what LinkedIn offers individuals. WKW
provides a working example of the pipeline workflow. The application
provides a useful set of scripts that partners can run within their
tenant to create a set of users and email interaction to populate a Who
Knows Who Graph. By enabling this pipeline on an O365 test tenant, the
partner can get started with our sample data and use variations of our
scripts or the actual Office clients to create datasets required for
their unique application needs.

## Customer Marketplace Experience

### Marketplace

Euclid leverages the existing integration of Managed Applications with
the [AppSource marketplace](https://appsource.microsoft.com).
Microsoft AppSource helps enterprise users find and gauge
line-of-business (LoB) and software-as-a-service (SaaS) apps from
Microsoft and its partners. AppSource apps are built on top of a variety
of Microsoft products and includes all their existing apps add-ins and
content packages. All applications leveraging Euclid resources can be
purchased in the AppSource marketplace.

### Application Installation

A customer purchaser that has resource creation rights on an Azure
subscription, such as a mid-level manager or IT department, installs
applications through the AppSource marketplace. They will see the terms
of service, the data that is required, price for each application SKU
and approximate cost for resource consumption.

Once the properties are specified by the purchaser the resources are
provisioned. This includes the Data Factory pipeline that begins
extracting data. The purchaser is given a ReadMe from the developer
author about when to expect the installation to be complete, how to use
the application, and how to get support.
